# Public-Health-Surveillance-Data
My First Repository on Github.
This project involves analyzing a public health surveillance dataset to visualize key trends and extract meaningful insights. It demonstrates data cleaning, analyzing, visualization, and insight generation using Excel.
Name: (Public-Health-Surveillance)
Source: (I got it from Kaggle)
Description: (This dataset contains records collected for public health surveillance purposes. It includes information such as patient demographics, medical history, immunity level, reported symptoms, transmission rate, mortality rate, case-fatality rate, infection risk level, disease severity among others.The purpose of this analysis is to track disease trends, detect potential outbreaks and make actionable insights. 
Tool used is Excel
Key steps include; Data Cleaning, Data Analysis, Data Visualization using Pivot Charts, Insight Generation and Recommendations.
Some of the observations made include; The probability of getting infected wit[public_health_surveillance_dataset 22.xlsx](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/24220609/public_health_surveillance_dataset.22.xlsx)
[public_health_surveillance_dataset 22.xlsx](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/24220575/public_health_surveillance_dataset.22.xlsx)
h diseases is highest among those whose socio-economic status is low, followed by those in middle-socio economic status and then those in high socio-economic status. This could be due to lack of Health Education on disease management and prevention, as well as lack of access to a good healthcare by those in low socio-economic status. According to the data we have, those population under low socio-economic status suffer more chronic conditions than their counterparts.The male counterparts (Male Respondents) have more chronic conditions than the female counterparts (Female Respondents), as well as those who were identified as other gender. This could be as a result of the dominance of the male respondents. The result shows that the male counterparts comply more with health guidelines than the female counterparts, including the gender that was identified as others.The result shows that the mortality rate in all the age groups is high, despite the rates in some age groups leading.The rates of the case fatality in the respective age groups (0-100)are high.
Recommendation: There are numerous recommendations made according to the findings, some of which are; Since the data shows that there is a significant number of transmission rate from all age groups, it's advisable to provide proper healthcare care for the people, irrespective of the age group.Causes of death should not be neglected no matter how little the rate is. Human life is valuable, more precious than gold and must be protected at all costs. Proper health intervention should be put in place to curb this menace.Proper health intervention is needed to minmize the fatality rate and subsequently reduce mortality rate.
Visualizations: (Pivot Tables and different Pivot Charts).
How to use: Download the Excel file, Open the file, Explore the Analysis and Visuals, View the summary in "Insights".
Contributions, suggestions, and feedback are welcome. Feel free to reach out at peaceokeke91@gmail.com
